

Cycles


















Written and Illustrated by Miya Sheker




for Kristine
Table of Contents

Introduction	6

Whenever it’s convenient!	8
Larger than Life	9
Google Keep	10
Google Keep 2	11
Marco?	12
Vision and Voice	13
Aspiration	14
Admiration	16
October Thoughts	17
Recycle Bin	18
There is something here. I promise.	20
Writer’s Block	21
Oceans	23
Bones, bones, bones	24
Everyone is Drowning	26
Letting go is the right thing.	28
Pandora	29
Answers Pending	31
Prescription	32
Universe (circa 2018)	34
Universe Reclaimed	35
Universe Reimagined	36
Oops	37
Matchstick	39
Sleepwalker	41
It’s a jungle out here.	43
Rumbles	45
Crows and flowers	47
Pebbles and Rocks	48
Lava	49
My Melatonin Collects Dust	51
Passersby	53
In search of silhouettes	55
Ceramic	56
Welcome home, honey.	58
Tiptoe	59
Meet me at the playground	61
Demigod	62
It’s okay to say goodbye.	64
Hermit Crab	65
Lolo Anos Anos Fonacier	67
Tatay Alfredo Lim	68
Lola Mommy Josefina Caluya Fonacier	69
Pillars	70
Ray and Evangeline	71
As the Earth Grows Old	73
Horticulture	75
Scavenger Hunt	77
The Golden State	79
Currents	81
Hidden Spring	82
Mirage	83
The first chord	84
The Pursuit of Love	85
Rewrite	87
Get me Webster!	88
Dwelling	89
Artistic Shifting	94
The Narcissist’s Manifesto	96
She	99
Poetry is in the gaps	100
My poetry partner forbids me from emotion	101


Introduction	2

Whenever it’s convenient!	8
Larger than Life	9
Google Keep	13
Google Keep 2	14
Marco?	15
Vision and Voice	17
Aspiration	18
Admiration	20
October Thoughts	21
Recycle Bin	22
There is something here. I promise.	25
Writer’s Block	27
Oceans	23
Bones, bones, bones	24
Everyone is Drowning	26
Letting go is the right thing.	28
Pandora	29
Answers Pending	31
Prescription	32
Universe (circa 2018)	34
Universe Reclaimed	35
Universe Reimagined	36
Oops	37
Matchstick	39
Sleepwalker	41
It’s a jungle out here.	43
Rumbles	45
Crows and flowers	47
Pebbles and Rocks	48
Lava	49
My Melatonin Collects Dust	51
Passersby	53
In search of silhouettes	55
Ceramic	56
Welcome home, honey.	58
Tiptoe	59
Meet me at the playground	61
Demigod	62
It’s okay to say goodbye.	64
Hermit Crab	65
Lolo Anos Anos Fonacier	67
Tatay Alfredo Lim	68
Lola Mommy Josefina Caluya Fonacier	69
Pillars	70
Ray and Evangeline	71
As the Earth Grows Old	73
Horticulture	75
Scavenger Hunt	77
The Golden State	79
Currents	81
Hidden Spring	82
Mirage	83
The first chord	84
The Pursuit of Love	85
Rewrite	87
Get me Webster!	88
Dwelling	89
Artistic Shifting	94
The Narcissist’s Manifesto	96
She	99
Poetry is in the gaps	100
My poetry partner forbids me from emotion



Introduction

Cycles can be stupid. You know what I mean?

Hi reader,

This is my first letter to you. Thank you for picking up Cycles. I both hope, for your own sake, that you do not relate to the bulk of its contents and, for my own selfish need to find empathy in others, that you do see yourself in a poem or two. If you don’t know me, hello. It’s nice to meet you. My name is Miya. I am scared of crossing the street when the light is red, even without a car in sight. Sometimes, I set out on walks only to stop at random, just to see what I can find. My soul gravitates to large cities; I find peace in the bustle. I believe good art can change the trajectory of your day, maybe even your life. Cheesy? Yes. True? Also yes. At least for me. 

In 2022, I published a little poetry book, Full, with my dear friend, Aurelia. Together, we explored the breadth of the human experience: the desire to create, to connect, to comprehend the world that we are living in. I found myself on an enormous high after its release, and, for a multitude of reasons and life changes, soon found myself in a tremendous low shortly after. 

For every time I felt proud of my accomplishments, my mind became a Times Square of self-doubt: billboard bold letters that I am lacking, that I do not deserve any ounce of praise, that I have not done enough. I would lie awake at night and blame myself for the lack of sleep. The person I used to be never had this problem. The person I used to be would have handled this better. The person I used to be was happy. Why couldn’t I be her? Why couldn’t I let the joy last? Why is it that every time I climb a mountain I remind myself that I will fall? Why does this happen over and over and over again?

At the end of every relationship, I found myself unphased; I felt so secure in my self-worth and knew what I had to offer. I was still whole without the people who left. My world kept turning. 95% of the time. In sporadic bursts, everything I assured myself and others I didn’t feel–the anger, the grieving, the sadness–all poured out of me and into my poetry. The more I wrote about it, the more I felt my foundations shake. I was sure I was okay. I was sure I was over it. Why does it all keep rushing back? The more I wrote, the more I felt like I was lying to myself and to others. I felt like a fraud and a stranger in my reflection.

And like a sunburst, Cycles was born. Deeply personal (and by consequence, vulnerable), the following anthology explore my recent ranges of emotion, from fears that I can never seem to definitively quiet to perspective shifts to see myself in a whole new light. A collection of poems, letters, and illustrations, I hope to let you all catch a glimpse of who I am in the way I best know how to. Thank you for joining me on my journey, turbulence and all. 

Miya
Whenever it’s convenient!

Screaming
I want you to see me
Please could you just fucking look

Pleading
I made it so easy
I wrote it all in this fucking book




*Larger than Life 

Biding my time,
I am in no rush.
Paintbrush bristle fingertips
gentle, circle
along my skin, dip
in my aura, mix 
in the color.

Bending my timelines,
the longer I bathe in 
the memories, the most potent 
float to the surface, materializing 
in pigment, watercolor washes 
from the fervor I work in.
An outpouring on a spatial plane,
a colored canvas, a place
to be.

Surrounded by the canary yellow
of long-awaited reunions,
shiny obsidian sleepless nights, 
the duochrome of leaving home.
Vivid, the world I live in.
Capture it and share it, 
my essence in every facet.
Abstract, but not.
Artistry! I thought. 

Massive, it had to be
if it were to stand for 
everything I am 
and wish to be.
This must be what they mean
that art is larger than life.
I am immortalized;
I am here 

behind this wall
of glass,
every transparency made opaque.
Amalgamated strokes of paint. 
It’s finally finished, and 
it fills every inch.
No one has seen me since.



TWO PAGE ILLUSTRATION




Google Keep

poems that sit in notes on my phone
littered vulnerabilities
amongst flowers of life
flurries of petals encircle me gently
until a vortex appears
a pitfall out of my present moment
a hyper-fixation on making sense
of nothing and everything
i am still searching for color
its symbolism in paintings of the present
as if capturing beauty in brushstrokes
will make this moment last
gripping tightly on all that has passed 



*Google Keep 2

poems that sit in notes on my phone
scribbles and musings, dreams of genius
a limited woman with unlimited words
for a sunshine world that only i can capture
a sacred duty to creation 
illuminating the wonders i wish we could share
in the bending of a gentle breeze
fragrances of life encompassed
in sparks of written inspiration
lightning that strikes in between
grocery lists
and
reminders to call my friends



Note for art
google keep
gray for
color for poems - watercolor wash

gray note
Hey! How have you been? It’s been so long. I miss you lots. Would you want to catch up sometime?




Marco?

A trail of breadcrumbs
A child anxiously waiting
Who will play their game?




Vision and Voice

I resent
pretty poetry.
Simple words,
empty dreams,
to see life as more
than all it is.

I write 
personal poetry.
Sewing beauty
in its 
specificity.
Beautiful only
to me.




Aspiration

I will not be tricked by pleasant tones.
Performative pretty words
strung thoughtlessly together.
Siren sounds that lull you
into a memory daze,
daybreak haze,
nostalgia moons,
and I’ll see you soons.



*Handwritten


Is there magic in a hidden page?
Writing words that may be lost.
I hope this remains in this moment.
I hope this stays.

*Admiration

I like the girl with the pencil in her hair,
the way she enters a room.
She looks forward. She isn’t searching
for a person to be, isn’t forming
herself at the spark of recognition.

She simply is.




*October Thoughts

A Fuyu persimmon, autumn’s treasure.
A still life on air, canvas absent.
Bright skin bathed in golden light.
 
A Hachiya persimmon, autumn’s siren.
Legends of blooming sweetness and custard flesh.
An onslaught to the mouth if unripe.

My raves and my rants
about a fruit 
have wound around the world.

A megaphone and my soapbox, autumn
turned to winter and these thoughts 
have yet to bear fruit.



Recycle Bin

For days, I practiced my penmanship.
Purposeful every shape, line.
Controlling every form of
Perception. Practice
paper after practice paper
until my letters were perfectly straight
and I could throw the scraps away.

Now, I click on keys
and write silly poems,
clacking away at a pixel screen.
Default font flies and multiplies 
until the words I’ve repeated
bleed in the margins,
droning content to be discarded.

*Inner Thoughts 1

Your writing is lazy. Your writing is repetitive. Say something new. Be you. Be original. Be fresh. Be authentic. You wrote this before. This doesn’t sound like you. No one will get this. No one even wants to get it. You are delusional. Why do you think you’re important? Why do you think this matters? How you feel does not matter. You do not matter. You are embarrassing yourself. You are embarrassing the people who love you. You are untalented. You are ordinary. You don’t know what you’re doing. You are an affront to real artists. Real poets. Real people with real struggles. You need to stop. You only think about yourself. Your “art” is so self-centered. You are so full of yourself.



There is something here. I promise.

Write something new. 
Every pressing thought
in reckless abandon. 
Every lyrical moment
scrawled onto a page.
Something must stick.
Something must stick.
Something must stick.

I’ll watch
my pinings at beauty
peel off plaster walls
and slowly fall
in cinematic suspense
to a lonely floor.

Words I said to no one 
echo in their empty beds
as the train barrels towards
its inevitable crash.
A desperate attempt to avoid
the realization that only a 
narcissist
thinks their musings
are anything worth sharing. 
At the end of my dismal days,
when the pen has dried out 
and I rot in my papier-mâché,
I’ll finally accept my greatest fear:

I have nothing to say.


Writer’s Block

Another paper
crumpled and thrown.
All these words, meaningless.
They all say the same things.
Another push
on the border of my creativity.
What once came like breathing
now feels so foreign.
An alien at the forcefield
at the precipice of thought.
Wishing for expanse.
Wishing to be more than I am.



* Handwritten


What if I have nothing left?
What if my moment has passed?







Oceans

She spent the day soaking in ocean brine.
So when she lays her head at night,
she still feels the waves pulling,
pushing further and further. 




Bones, bones, bones

I live in a city of bones.
Alone, yet never alone.
I think of you fondly,
and I carry you home.
Fingers strum strings cold.
Extra voices echo bones.
I am big and brittle; city, little.
All together wispy ghosts
alive in the city of bones.
*HANDWRITTEN 1

I am a bystander to everyone I love drowning. 
I cannot do anything (I am not their savior)
I cannot do anything (There is so much bad in the world)
I cannot do anything (I am drowning too)

Everyone is Drowning

There is a place between 
insomnia and sleep,
a deep-sea purgatory,
no shore in sight,
where my sins and self-hatred 
echo.
I’m left heaving 
with all that haunts me.
The same demons greet me, gleefully,
dragging me 
deeper 
underwater, 
content if I drown, but
hoping I live
for them to try again.

I break to the surface, 
desperate for breath.
Silently screaming, yet
I still cover my mouth.
Please don’t hear me gasping.
Let these pleas pierce only
the walls of my mind.
Be still the air that hangs 
between us.
Sleep soundly,
steeped in peace
far from this 
familiar place.

I lay my head down and drift.
The thought of your rest: a raft 
tugging me from consciousness,
pulling far enough to leave me useless
when I hear you across the water,
heaving with all that haunts 
you. and I 
am barely afloat and hardly mobile
when you are pulled 
into the depths. I’ll scream 
from my distance and squint 
to see if you have resurfaced,
begging my demons grant me 
a glimpse of confirmation,
knowing full well I feel 
their hands grip my ankle
and I wait for my turn.



*Letter to reader

Hi reader,

Are you dizzy?

Do you need to take a break?

You can put this book down if you need.

Is it too much? Am I too much?

I know you’ve never seen me like this. I never let you.

Am I making sense? Is this worth your time?

If I could, I’d squeeze your hand.
I can bring you a water or a pillow to rest.
I know I am a lot to take in, to understand.

I would never hold it against you if you left.



*Letting go is the right thing.

I couldn’t fathom then
my love for you now.
Seeing you fly
is both my greatest joy
and deepest sorrow.


Pandora  

Sticky notes of scribbles,
feelings concealed,
and fears you’d leave me—
stuffed into the piggybank of 
my Pandora’s box. 
As the morning dew waves goodbye
and solar beams settle on their pedestal,
the voices keep quiet, keep content
in the exile they’ve always known.
In fated, timely occurrence,
the moon lassos its tides, 
and gusts up wind until
all that was still 
stirs.
The sealed contents bathe in gales anew,
breathe deep and thrash 
against their cardboard walls.

You saw me holding them, 
my secrets and 
sins that have never left my lips.
They belong in the box, I managed to utter 
through the turbulence. We held 
the lid together. Four hands along its seam.
You wagered to release them,
let every shred I am gripping onto
dissipate into the air.
How beautiful! To watch them 
rise into the sky, you insisted
as you graciously granted
freedom
t0 the burdens I’ve been carrying.

I stared, incredulous,
feeling the walls concave and bellow,
as the hidden parts of myself
bang to get out.
What if it’s too much?
What if you leave?
Your hands chose to answer my fears.
Your eyes held mine steady.
In silence, you pulled my hands aside
for ghostly hazes to burst from the box,
encircling us, tearing paper walls 
to bits.
Your eyes grew wide
as they eclipsed the sun.
I shut my eyes in surrender
as we lost all trace of light.

Four clicks on my watch, and
I felt the warmth 
on my face once more.
They did as you said.
They melted into air,
balloons climbing to a splendid sun.
There, I sat. Eyes open,
two hands and cardboard scraps.
Alone.
But free, just as you said.




Answers Pending

My life is a crime scene,
and you were careless with your fingerprints.
People walk through the yellow tape,
oblivious to the carnage you left behind.
I tense when they disturb your memory,
blurring your tracks and leaving me
stranded without your trace. They speed about 
while my leaded bones can barely stand.
I’ve taken to dusting the evidence,
packaging and putting you away.
Will this room ever be the same? 

My life is a demolition site
of a noble monument; now, nothing. 
Traces of its memory underneath my fingernails.
Four handprints in concrete forgotten, 
made meaningless by your uncalloused hands.
Your signature and mine on 
crumpled blueprints to build,
overwritten by your sole discretion to dismantle.
So graciously you left me in the rubble,
sentenced to clean one pebble at a time.
After you’ve seen destruction, 
do you ever forget it?

My life is an abandoned library:
tomes of knowledge lost to ravages,
languages that no longer grace traveling tongues,
cobwebs bind pages where corners once folded.
Your specificities meticulously logged– 
notes scribbled in margins, 
marred by determined teardrops,
surfacing despite my best attempts to stifle them.
They mix with ink like how you took 
your coffee in the morning.
Clouds of milk that turn to ghosts at night.
Wisps of all your whispered promises,
will this silence ever quiet down?

Prescription

Four years with a fisheye lens.
I pushed my world 
to the periphery, bending my vision 
to your pedestal until
you shattered the glass.

Four years with a fisheye lens
broken in shards around
my bare feet. How pretty 
the light is
as it kisses the mosaic.

Four years with a fisheye lens,
but now my sight 
is in perfect proportions
and how wide the world is
without you.



*Full page illustration


The people who are meant to be in your life

Will be.


If they leave,

They were meant to.




Universe (circa 2018)

He was born just as the universe was, 
a singularity in time and space 
destined for expansion far beyond imagination. 
The universe in all its grandeur 
spreads neither thin nor destructively, 
growing beyond bounds, 
bravely moving forward where 
before, there was  
nothing. 
Others see pockets of darkness; 
I see planetary potential,  
nothing less than quite simply  
beautiful in its sheer existence. 
His soul spans and stretches across 
the highest peaks of joy, 
valleys of grief, 
rolling plains of endless compassion. 
I could spend a lifetime and a day 
exploring his topography, 
from every line on his face  
to each crevice on his body, 
yet still only grasp but a fraction 
of the profound depth of his emotion.





Universe Reclaimed

I wrote you words and 
promised they would stay yours.
So proudly I gave you
my adoration, my absolute, my art.
So quickly you gave me
your arguments, your apologies, your abandonment.
So now, I have come for collection.
You don’t get to have my best
imprisoned in your tallest tower
without the slightest hint of light.

I wrote you words 
in a time of love, of hope
they would be the last.
But now they are not.
You made sure of that.



Universe Reimagined

The universe it grows,
like a blanket over existence.
What I thought was my sun 
was just a common star.
A supernova that burned 
once so bright
is now just empty space,
dust,
and the promise
for something new.


*Oops

Your words spilled ink
over all of my words.

My words, unwavering and pure, 
laid to rest without warning.
My sincere sentiments presented:
adoration and love,
wishes and wants, 
once a home, now a haunt.
I spilt milk and you spilt blood.

You offer up your substandard eulogy
etched in a napkin at an empty funeral. 
Infuriating. 
A bandaid over a broken leg insulting.
Your irreverence inconceivable
on innocence, so criminal 
with these casualties. How casual 
you allow carelessness.
Inflicting insignificance, permanence in
ink
over all of my words.

Blood from my bitten lip drips
in time with tipped ink.
Stifling venom-laced vengeance
I hold my pointed tongue.
Standing over the remains of all once precious,
water sloshes at my knees
in this tidal wave of erasure. Words 
are all a writer has and this writer’s words
you may no longer have.




*This is not about heartbreak - Handwritten

This isn't about heartbreak. This isn't about pain or loss. This isn’t about you.

This is about all that I have let in.  This is about how I could have ever allowed the foundations on which I stood to be shaken. This is about how I watched everything I loved about myself slowly drain away as you held me underwater. This is about how long I took the blows. This is about how I ever thought you were a good thing. This is about never learning my fucking lessons. This is about letting the blame rush in every time I close my eyes. This is about wondering if I could ever trust myself again. This is about me.





Matchstick

He is a match
stick to your guns.
This is all in the past.
The bullets have passed,
but its exit cycles through.
Regret reignited,
hasty ignitions, and
absent intuition.
I am standing in fire, but 
the culprit fled the scene.
He is a match.
Stick to your guns.



Sleepwalker

The authorities found her. 
Huddled over, caked in dirt from the freshly turned 
soil she knelt in.
Fists clenched almost as tight as her eyes were shut.
A trail of graves in bulldozed peace snaked behind her
Screams scattered crows.
Hands battered the earth below.

You can’t disturb a sleepwalker.

The authorities nodded. 
Slow to turn around, to peel their eyes from 
the wreckage.
She’ll deal with the aftermath of her actions
when the sun has risen,
and she can see again.



*Handwritten

I never just let things

rest.






I am so tired. 



*Handwritten

I dragged my foot along the page and my leaden sole smudged pencil sentences in a hazy trail behind me. I look down. I look up. I look every which way except forward. 






It’s a jungle out here.

Stagnant waters of forgiveness.
A cesspool of lingering hurt
and grudge-ridden mosquitos.
A marshland of anger parading as apathy.

No one told me this is what healing looks like.

This land still holds dear.
Sandy beaches of fond memory
recede and new tide pools erect.
I miss who I was and love who I am.

Loving you had that effect.








Letter

I have it together. I am okay. I can continue. I can be strong. Why do I always have to be strong? I watch things shatter and then I carry the pieces. The shards are digging into my skin, the blood is trailing behind me, and my mouth is smiling. I say I’m okay so often that even I start to believe it.


Rumbles 

Turned on the washing machine
to make the room sound like rain.
I’ll curl in a corner and wait for the clouds,
cower under dryer cycle thunder.
I sit there and remember 

Weeks 
shouting and pleading
for the months of downpour to cease.
Now, the California sun has reared its holy head,
and the room has never been so empty
without its drops and patter.







*Crows and flowers

My neighbor’s flowers grow into my backyard.
Fuchsia petals draped on tall stucco walls.
A crow bounces in the branches
to peck amongst the leaves.
Back and forth it bounds along,
chipper as it chirps through,
trampling over flowers that were never meant to bloom.




*Handwritten

Eventually you make peace with the fact that you may never make peace with your past. 



Illustration

House with a porch light on
Tombstones in the front yard


Pebbles and Rocks

Your absence hits me like
a hazy dream. Pain that has already 
tumbled 
      past 
    the roots 
          and soil 
and trickled down through pebbles and rocks.
A shadowy presence in my periphery
lurking in happy moments,
sitting on its opportunity to strike.
I wake knowing your threat no longer exists
and clamber out of bed 
feeling as if I had forgotten
something important.




Lava

An active volcano
yearns for dormancy
as its molten emotions
terrorize the townspeople.




*Handwritten (maybe a drawing of a ferris wheel)

The funny thing about cycles is that I always tell myself I will fall
But in my lowest I never remember things are going to come back up
My Melatonin Collects Dust

I lose sleep,
and like clockwork,
the delusions waltz in.
They dance around me
and climb over walls.
The waters rise.
The elements settle in.
The cycle is amplified.
The warm light burns stronger.
Blind, I am bathing in its embrace.
Rainy days are set to soft jazz.
And my head burns.
The weightiness of my existence
at the core of a dizzy world.
Self-inflicted intoxication. 
Insomnia is my drug.
And this is my beautiful high.



Passersby

When the light 
        stretches over the valleys at last,
I sit in shadows, counting minutes 
until the blanket of night. 


When the day
        falls sweet
And the night creeps slow, 
I hardly notice the auras flow.


When the warmth
        is,
fixate on the temperature dips
and the phone screen’s glow.
*Handwritten

Little logos and straight lines
Connected letters and drops of ink
Let the words melt horizontally
Along the page
Circular and dramatic
How I think a writer should write
How I write my grocery lists
You can tell where I paused
When I forgot what letters to write next
You can tell when I stopped
Not trying to write for legibility,
But instead for the act itself





*Handwritten 

I want to feel connected.

I write words.

I break them up.

I need stanzas and line breaks and 

Unconventional rhyme schemes.

I share words.

Obscured.

And no one knows where I am 

In the blur.



In search of silhouettes

Endless doors in this 
        corridor horizon.
  Dusty mirrors with golden frames 
                   line these walls.
The air, crisp and gilded, 
       hangs
            onto this momentous present,
         like a word gripping on the tip 
     	of my tongue.

      The vision of her flowing fabric
           tightens its vice-grip on my mind,
like the sight of water in sweltering heat.
 	How long now have I lived in drought?
How long has her dissipating mirage
          been but a reflection in the halls?

                Apparition, curved and coveted,
leaving wispy trails and
     whispers in my periphery.
Teasing her presence with a train 
skirting at the edge of 
view.


*Ceramic 

A figure, molded out of clay,
Twisted limbs and contortions
Spinning wheel performances until
its globs of earth are thrust into fire.
Abstract and awkward, as intended.

A craftsman, shaky but careful as can be,
makes hand etchings you can hardly see.
clumsy fingers clutching graceless art,
treasure glazed, thrown to clueless
strangers now holding an artist’s whole heart.

A patron, oblivious to the face 
waiting in the window behind. 
With this curious thing in hand,
you hold the fate of an artist anxious 
bidding you the softest plea:

this tiny thing, my heart and strings
i weave, i leave to you.
with tenderness, i bid:
wander free even if
it’s never back to me



*Handwritten

I lost an earring somewhere in my apartment, and I am crying.

It’s just an earring, but I am crying. 

Why do I attach myself to the smallest things?

And cry when they leave me?





Welcome home, honey.

I keep the hinges oiled
for my revolving door
of bad lovers.
Tattoo their snide comments
and excuses for our endings.
Projecting rosy hues on 
freshly painted white walls.
Propped on a plastic covered couch,
still dizzy from a carousel of potential.




*Tiptoe 

Red rust gate creaks.
Crouch behind electric fences.
Evade the light of security guards searching.
Find the island we can be on - 
Far from eyes and opinions.

I am a moth to the fire on the wick you lit.
A broken candle casting warmth on my skin.
I’ll take a match to the other side.
Emotions intense as it burns from both ends.

The signs were there, the inevitable fall.
I thought I could resist you and I was wrong.
Is this misfortune or is it luck?
We tiptoed into something casual,
and you hit me like a truck.

[[cellphone screen |did you just call me baby]]



*Handwritten


a careful woman
tasked
with a careless heart



How can I say 
I love you 
in a way that is entirely 
my own
when I am but 
an amalgamation 
of others’ words,
others’ loves,
others’ scars.
Meet me at the playground

Swinging mountaintop high,
hovering before returning to earth.
A moment of suspension,
fearless and easy.
Gravity is no match for the flutter 
in my throat. Bubbles from my diaphragm
to effervesce and lift, but
my gut knows before my head and my heart
that this will all fall apart.




Demigod 

I’ve had a recurring dream.
As I drift from my world,
he meets me every time.
A man that engulfs me and 
all fibers of my being.
He is a demigod quelling storms,
dancing with lightning
against the gray.
He whisks me away–
Eiffel Tower kisses to
swimming in cliff-enclosed 
canyons, treading water in the ravine
without a care what the onlookers see.
Our gazes could melt icecaps.
A simple touch leaving trails of smoke.
Jumping into volcanoes,
hand in hand,
emerging from the pit 
with lava-soaked skin.
The wit of my last love,
And the smile of my first.

Each night he sets me anew
To release me yet again.
He stays with me in pieces,
faded pictures and fleeting whispers.
A wisp of that yearning flame
rests on my shoulder all day.
Sentimental over a spectre,
longing for the fragments
of men I've loved before.



It’s okay to say goodbye. 

Lovers leave me and I let them
Go with grace, a chaste
Kiss. My Mona Lisa smile: they stand in awe.
My masterpiece etched with selflessness and maturity.
The crowds clap: an oil-painted face knows no tears.
Immaculate still, come nightfall, alone in a hollow room.

Lovers leave me and I let them.
I shoulder the magnitude of your decisions.
Sitting in the rubble on a regular morning.
Never looking our artifacts in the eyes.
Pretending I am unphased in the aftershock.

Lovers leave me and I let them,
Because heartbreak stings
But fault lingers. Better a coward than 
The one to blame.

Lovers leave me and I let them.
I go to bed wishing them the best
And wake wishing I had stopped them.

Lovers leave me and I am left with
Stanzas on repeat and the same echoing excuses.

Lovers leave me


*Hermit Crab

Stepping out into the world
I realized how much I had to lose
And promptly retreated




*Handwritten

There is a voice inside my head telling me if I disappear quietly, slowly, no one would notice.  I know it is in my head. It’s okay. It’s no one’s job to make me feel okay.

I still wish someone would make me feel okay.


EMPTY PAGE


Are you still here?




Lolo Anos Anos Fonacier 

My great grandfather stood tall
as the trees we walked past.
Strolling slow, never realizing 
I might be the reason why,
inching carefully so our moment never
passed him by. I
let tropical humid air cling to my skin.
Let it linger until I returned to foggy hills,
where I had to live. 
Now, I remember his smile 
like a fraying photograph
and devour stories of the past,
where he has to live. 

He would sit coolly under a ceiling fan.
A Pacific Ocean view and a Philippine Island breeze.
He sat as the sun rolled over in its bed,
surrounded by his children and his friends and 
even the water edged closer to be near him.
He raised a finger and spoke in an even tone, 
“Get him.”
A speck in the distance of the sea, 
my father, a boy then,
treading water behind a current.
Calm and confident.
His lolo would collect him.



Tatay Alfredo Lim

He was a stern man, a commanding presence.
In a second, his wintery face would melt.
Spring charisma held its grip on public attention.
A powerful man by sheer means of his will
Pulled good fortune by his own measures and magnetism.
A man who had all he wanted but still bought a lottery ticket.
He dreamt of headlines and butterflies when his eyes closed
and dared to dream with them open, too.

He had 8 children, four girls and four boys.
It was his youngest, his little girl,
who would clamber behind him.
Five tiny fingers wrapped around one of his.
He left her by the door each morning.
Soon, his little girl grew up.
She moved overseas but called each week.
She bought a lottery ticket for him,
hoping one day she could give him good news
and tell him his dream came true.

His little girl
had a little girl, who
pondered her grandfather.
A stern man. A commanding presence.
He looked at her report cards,
nodded to show approval, and 
slid her a lottery ticket and a pencil.
And, in a second, his wintery face melted,
and hope bloomed in the heat of summer
as he watched the little girl
choose his lucky numbers.

Lola Mommy Josefina Caluya Fonacier 

I sat upside down on a recliner and she bit my foot.
She opened the front door to look for snails in the dirt.
Her pug Obama and her rotating catchphrases.
Hours at the piano and sudoku puzzles solved in pen.
Books stuffed with stray papers and notes.
Jottings of phrases her grandchildren would say.
Funny things she swore to never forget.

So many vivid images of the last quarter of her life.
And none from the rest.

When she was younger, her father survived the Bataan Death March after World War 1.
My uncle says she never spoke about it, even to the day she died. She lived to 98.
She went to Columbia for a master’s in math. She was a college professor. Published. 
Prominent.

And all I knew was her fluffy white hair and 
she bit my foot.

Pillars

It felt important to me to (attempt to) capture who these people were before I met them. Because with all that they meant to me, they meant more to other people. They are the heroes of my heroes. 

Of the rotation of all the thoughts that keep me up at night, the feeling that I have failed them is the one that tears at my very core. Three pillars, each one individually seeped with strength in abundance, hold me up and I still crumble. I can’t shake the image of them looking down on me from their holy perch and wishing I turned out differently. I yield proudly the blade they gave me; I am equipped with their wisdom and my admiration and the hope I can emulate them. Most days the load is light, but some days I bleed from the hilt in my hand. My fist grips as the blood drips. Letting go of it means I let you go, too. And I could never manage that. 






Ray and Evangeline

Pupils stare at a silver screen.
Discs reflecting fiction, 
written for fun, imagined truths by 
empty dreamers.
Storylines laced with hope
I never asked for:
souls of those I lost 
persist still.
Perhaps they float 
in my atmosphere,
watching and waiting.
Visits in visions 
(if I would only close my eyes)
Old flames reunited in an eternal dance,
twirling through the black, 
spinning upon Saturn's rings.
Am I seeing stars or 
their marks upon the night sky?
How desperately I wish for this to be true.
Instead, I sit in delusion,
alone in an empty room.




*Letter to reader

Hi reader,

Sometimes I reread my work and it feels like reading a letter from a long lost friend. A pivotal figure in the road to who I presently am, yet I can’t seem to remember clearly. The steps I have taken are covered by thick fog. I feel estranged from myself. Everything I do further makes a stranger out of me. I write to capture myself. I edit because the self I captured is not good enough. Rewrite after rewrite after rewrite. And then I’m left with Frankenstein for art, diluted and dissected until its essence is obscured. I wonder who I lost in the process of editing myself.

I wonder who you see in the aftermath of editing myself.




As the Earth Grows Old

Maiden Earth beckoned her.
Eyelashes and detective hats.
Bright colored glasses and 
weeds she thought were flowers.
Sit with us at lunch and
schoolboy crushes.

Mistress Earth whispered to her.
Straddling gradient lines. 
The interlocking fingers of 
mystery and misery.
Foggy thoughts and salt scrubs.
Disappearing into milky soaking tubs.

Mother Earth witnesses.
The armada of past selves,
phantasms single file.
Maps of fingerprints.
Sentiments and Sins.
Floating remnants or solar eclipses?



*Handwritten

You’ve come so far.
No one needs to give you permission
To stop.







*Horticulture

Bud,
nestled in neglected dirt.
I cock my head,
my shadowed eyes
follow
falling 
 leaves,
curled at their blackened ends.

Bud,
encased in its trap of glass.
I sit back, 
       nefariously, 
     and wait
for it to fully wither
at my wicked hands.



*Questions (handwritten)

What happens when
the things that
made you feel alive
no longer do?

Was I ever happy?

Do you let the fear set in?
The creep of panic crescendos
the faster your mind searches
through every recess of your mind.

Was I ever happy?

Litmus test after litmus test, 
looking for any evidence of joy.
What if I run out of things to try?
What happens then?

Was I ever happy?



Scavenger Hunt

First, you’ll make your way to the park.
Past the trees, past the benches, past
the young couple sharing earphones.
In the open space, in the congregation
of dragonflies and sunshine, in the 
nestles of grass and wildflowers,
you’ll find it.

Next, you’ll head into the city.
The lights are bright and the sounds are loud
and the people are rude; try not to
get distracted. Follow signs for downtown,
cross the bridge over the bay
(don’t look down)
and look for the tallest building you can.
It is glass and metal and 
reflections and strength and
the view touches what seems like the whole world.
When you climb to the top,
you’ll find it.

When you’re ready, you’ll drive to the bluffs.
Tread softly and only in the ink wash gray.
When you’ve pushed past the fog, you’ll plunge
into murky depths. If the light doesn’t break
through the surface, don’t panic.
That’s normal.
Avoid the currents pulling you to jagged rocks
and do not alert the
things I can’t name (but are surely cohabiting the waters) and
you’ll find it.

And when you’ve emerged, 
pricked and prodded and
dripping and panting and 
that’s when I’ll meet you
with a map with three little Xs 
and countless little circles,
all the little parts of myself I’ve left
everywhere I went.


*Handwritten

I have made it so exceedingly difficult to truly know me.
Who could make a life out of a scavenger hunt?

I have made it so exceedingly difficult;
it is no wonder people leave. 

This is all my doing.




The Golden State

It is not meant to rain in California.
California is sun and light and warmth
on my face, seeping into my soul.

It is not meant to rain in California.
California calms, California glows,
treasures sewn in western coasts.

It is not meant to rain in California,
yet the skies are bleached gray, and
for months, rain falls like sheets.

It is not meant to rain in California,
but winter progresses and
its citizens grow restless.

It is not meant to rain in California.
Our sun doesn’t falter.
Our sun doesn’t stop. 

It is not meant to rain in California.
California cannot crumble.
California cannot drown.

It is not meant to rain in California.
Rain is not what we were promised.
Rain is not who California is.




Letter to reader


I was a quirky existence: hair cut to my ears and the toothiest smile. I didn’t know how to smile until my mid-teens. I thought my happiness was directly correlated to the wideness of my facial expression. This resulted in too many a family photo with my mouth stretched like the Joker and my eyes open as if I had not blinked in days. I walked so my hair bounced with every step, and I leapt at an uneven rhythm, letting the urge take over whenever it chose to fall upon me. I imagined reading storybooks to sleepy animals, cooing at and shushing their invisible silhouettes until my bell-ringing voice called them from the pastures they grazed in. Every night, I would chat on the phone, cycling through my friends until I had heard the voice of everyone I cherished. Summer days sparkled like diamonds and I never thought they would lose their shine.

I moved around a lot as a child. It still makes me sad to leave a place. My once immutable smile shifted to one tinged with sadness, quivering as tears sprung from the natural geysers of my eyes. As my family’s packed car veered on the highway, my childhood home on the horizon, I let my friends’ voice repeat in my head. I hope you never change. I hope you never change. I let my whole world collapse into itself, folding neatly like a pop-up book shutting its covers. I encapsulated and documented everything I knew about myself and left it suspended in packing peanuts and newspaper wrappings. Never to be touched again.

I packed myself into a box that day, holding onto I hope you never change as a commandment. To be strong of character, I can never let my character sway. I am a home for people who have long forgotten my name, an artifact of a point in their life they could never get back. In this way, they never lost me, and I, in turn, never have to come to terms that I had lost them a long time ago. The light bulb on the porch kept flickering until its eventual surrender, and even then I have not been able to change it. Now, the people I loved walk through the night, oblivious that I am still on the front porch waiting. I fantasize they will see me and see that I, indeed, have not changed. And I will ignore the shift in their tone and the wariness on their face, as I bound inside the house, hair streaming behind me, cleaning up cobwebs and dusting off chairs. It’s easier to clean the interiors than worry whether anyone is actually following me inside.



Currents

It starts with the water.
The beast that once shook with power
now hibernating and still.
You kick your feet in its depths
and a weak ripple quickly quiets itself.
Flat. Motionless. 
You faintly remember when the surface
used to glisten and glimmer,
but your imagination has teased scenes
like these
countless times before.

The torrent has died.

What do I do out of its wake?




*Hidden Spring

It rained in California
well into spring.
In between pours,
I snuck outside.
Blankets of dead leaves,
the color of sickly skin,
with stragglers clinging
to winding branches,
otherwise naked on 
crooked trunks.

Clouds condense shades of gray
when a tiny bird stands in my way.
It bounced on feeble legs
as if to tell me it had freshly learned to fly.
Triumphant, it took to the sky,
spreading its wings to reveal
bright yellow feathers,
my unmistakable California sun,
back in my airspace
as if it had never once left.
 
I took out my earbuds
to a deafening chorus.
These birds were everywhere. 
Their songs filled the air.
Chests puffed, feathers ruffled,
darting freely through the trees.
 
Spring was upon me,
and I didn’t even realize.




Mirage 

Love twists in ribbons,
falling like sheets.
California rain in May.

Solar flare and arid desert.
Water from the heavens.
I should have rejoiced,
but I cried mirage.







 


The first chord

An acoustic realization of love.
Resonance in quiet stadium sound.
Each echoing string sings.
Reverb in my bones.
The first chord, full and whole.
I have forgotten every other song.
Transcendent sound: sweet
on the tip of my tongue, warm
along my skin, hazel-colored 
glasses, crisp and clean like 
laundry on Sunday mornings. 
Softly and swiftly your melody
invaded my bloodstream,
every sense and every thought.
I walk with your tune on my lips
and your lyrics on my mind.


The Pursuit of Love

I've always fallen
heart first, head second,
hands ready
to brace for impact.
Cushion the fall and continuing on,
the pursuit of love as my unhealthy sport,
sprinting past signs to stop.

Times captive, times begging to be kept,
love I've seen from every facet.
And still I chase,
fearless and unrelenting,
feeling strong in my chest laid bare,
scarred, but still invincible.

How easy to be fearless
when I had nothing to lose.
Now I feel wholly myself
yet a stranger in the mirror.
The world moves faster 
the longer I stand still.
The pursuit of love stopped short:
to leave us unknown or
to leave with broken bones.

If this is just the beginning
of feeling you will unlock in me,
how could I turn away?
Whatever you want, however you want, 
I'm here for it all.
Time will be our noble appointed storyteller. 
To be your for now, or your forever,
whatever destiny decrees,
I am meant to be.


*Quote

“Do not be afraid to be the one that loves the most.”
Maria Victoria Sheker



Rewrite

Heartbreak songs had their grip on me.
Paralyzed as they play on repeat.
A tunnel to times of grieving
and visions of people leaving.
The ball and chain that kept me taken,
teasing hope and taunting loss.

Melodies with words without their meanings.
It’s your writing in the margins,
the light that reminds me that fear 
is the acknowledgement of importance.
You are every sad lyric rewritten
into the most poetic force of healing.



Get me Webster!

Someone saw a wondrous thing
and thought it so inexplicable;
It could not be defined by anything
other than itself

and put it in the dictionary.

I’d wedge a space in that winding book.
A spot rightfully deserved
for you and only you,
my wondrous, indescribable thing.



*Dwelling

My love tucks me in
after I have run through the fields.
Unphased by pricks on my feet and
dandelion fuzz in tangles in my hair.
He wraps me in blankets to tell me it is time to rest.
I wonder what I would become without this bed.
I wonder what he hopes for come morning,
knowing tomorrow I run again.



Airplane reflections 

Twenty hours. Twenty hours in recycled air and the same chair, sitting nicely at cruising altitude. A constant whir in the air and the occasional beep of the seatbelt sign. Three coughs. Two babbling babies. It took all this for me to finally hear myself, for me to get past everything and, in perhaps full frustration, realize I knew exactly what I wanted to hear. I just wanted to stop blaming myself. I wanted to stop treating me like someone I hated. I wanted to stop feeling like I had to be someone else.

Admittedly I came to this grand realization and then, over the course of a year, continued on my cycles. This wasn’t the ending I wanted to give. I wanted to come to this groundbreaking conclusion of how to end the cycles that I have grown so tired of. Well, here is the truth (my truth).

Some cycles never end and I am finally okay with it. That's the key. Being okay with it. I don't blame myself for falling in them anymore. I don't blame myself for foolishness. I don't blame myself for trusting the wrong people. I don't blame myself for never truly forgiving. I don’t blame myself for changing, for being a different person in different stages of my life. I don’t blame myself for struggling or for grief or for sitting in a rut when I needed to. 

I am okay. And when I am not, I know I am trying to be. That’s enough.
















Conclusions

That’s it? You didn’t solve anything.

I wasn’t trying to. 

All this was a waste of time.

I don’t believe in wastes of time. 

Okay. Pretentious.

Okay. Is that really it?

(empty page)

Then, what were you trying to do?

I wrote this book because I am building empathy for myself. I write things and reread them and forget I felt them. I am not letting you be some nebulous voice in my head anymore. I am not fighting this invisible obstacle anymore. I am committing you to paper. I am giving you the voice you’ve been tearing at me to have. I finally just want to hear what you’re saying. And you’re saying you’re hurt. And you feel guilt for things that you have done or things you let happen. I am building patience and grace for a kid who just wanted to love. I am not a waste of time. In the exact same way that you aren’t either. I’m not mad at myself for the cycles anymore. The cycles are just pieces of myself I’ve dropped along the way asking to be heard, to be held. And now, with the things I never thought I’d share printed in ink, I’ve never felt more whole.




To the person I was at 18:

I have written a lot of things in my life, but this is my first letter to you. Direct. No metaphors. Just us. My gut instinct was that the first thing I needed to tell you was I am sorry. I am sorry for how I misunderstood you. I am sorry for how I blamed you. I am sorry that I thought you were ever not good enough. However, this exploration isn’t about the things I didn’t do. I want it to be about the things you did do. 

Thank you for seeing the good in people. I forgot how to do that. I am trying to remember.

Thank you for loving. Thank you for everything you did in the pursuit of loving the most, loving fully and deeply, and not being afraid of vulnerability.  

Thank you for feeling everything you do. Thank you for holding my hand down my path, even when I didn’t know it. Even when I blamed you that I was on it. 

Thank you for your strength. Your wisdom. Your joy. Everything that encompasses you.

I want to tell you that, at 26, we finally feel our age. I feel capable. I feel at peace. I feel everything, and I love that. It still makes you feel sad when the sun takes its rest for the season, but you found the places the sun has stored itself into. The spark you started, the spark I thought I lost, it’s here. It’s always been here. You have people you love, and they love you, too. Some people still leave, but, ultimately, they were meant to. We have never been more whole.

The lane is open. We can do anything we want. 



*Handwritten

For someone who writes the same things over and over, I did it enough to fill an entire book. 





Everything 
my mind has 
touched 
has turned to 
gold.

It glimmers. 
It shifts. 
It evades 
your ill wishes.
Artistic Vision

I close my eyes— 
my mind places me 
barefoot 
on rocky pacific shores. 
Wearing nothing but a loose dress, 
thin, colorless, and 
painfully unequipped  
to shield me from the cold. 
My skin sticks from the salty air; 
my untied hair battered from violent gusts; 
my eyes squinting 
to find where the sky meets the sea, 
like searching for a line in a  
watercolor canvas of  
melancholy blues,  
domineering grays, and  
apathetic white. 
Thankfully, I am alone here, 
for when the ocean pushes against the land,
no one but 
me 
will be swept in its undertow.
Artistic Shifting

I close my eyes–
my mind places me
barefoot 
on prairie plateaus.
Wearing nothing but a loose dress,
thin, slipping
off my shoulder 
in the solitude of youthful innocence.
Perfectly equipped
to magnetize warm rays 
to bronze skin.
Walking in fields of wheat,
golden grains 
burst
at a single touch.
Cotton like confetti carried
by a singular wind 
in an otherwise frozen scene.
Thankfully, I am alone here,
for this paradise bounty is mine 
and mind derived. 
No one but 
me
can seep its nectar.









The Narcissist’s Manifesto

We are narcissists. (Artists, especially.) And we have been made to believe that is a bad thing.

Don’t think too highly of yourself; don't be a narcissist. 
Don’t take up too much space; don’t be a narcissist. 
Don’t seek admiration; don’t be a narcissist. 

Don’t be a narcissist; don’t be the person that no one wants around. We have weaponized narcissism to the point that we stifle our beings and spit on our work. We are painted smiles and “don’t worry about me” assurances that walk with the guilt that we still, despite this label and all its threats, undeniably feel the pull to share ourselves. We creep around the outskirts of pride, peering in, and wonder if we have snuck into territories we shouldn’t have. The fence is barbed, and the signs are clear, and they all say that we don’t have anything important to say. So we’ll turn away.

When did it become scarier to be a narcissist than to live a life without having left anything behind? When did we become so afraid of connecting? When did we become so numb? I look at screens more often than I look people in the eyes. I put the meaning of humanity in my jacket before I bolted out my door to catch the train. I rode 6 stops downtown and flew through the turnstiles and ran down the street and I have found myself here, not a penny to my name and not a thought in my pocket.

I’ve lived this way my whole life. I am trapped alone in a box of frosted glass blocks. I squint to decipher the outside and know I cannot no matter how hard I try. I know if I could see, I would see you: you’d be stuck, just like me, in your own little prison that only you recognize. Have you tried to survive like me? I’ve hung personalities like ornaments to reflect light in their facets. I thought they would help me shine further so I could tell myself that I had reached you. Did I reach you? Or have you given up like me? I am sitting in this enclosure, fully adorned with so many papier mâché versions of myself that I can no longer see who I am, let alone see outside. What is the point in trying? We are all screaming in our own little vessels and no one is able to hear.

This cannot be my world. Our worlds are meant to be open. Our worlds are meant to intersect. I am supposed to see you, and I swore I have before. Now I am not so sure. I’ve been so afraid of being myself. I’ve been so afraid of being unwanted. I’ve been so afraid of being a narcissist. I write because I must change. I write because I must share. Not because I am unique, because of the very fact that I am not. I long for the light I have lost and I am actively aiming to find it. The sun is rising. Can you feel its warmth? It is leaking into your shell and mine, from now until the end of time.

Memories and feelings, hints of humanity, hit me. Sometimes like a touch. Sometimes like a truck. I am everywhere because you are everywhere. I am everywhere because you are reading this. I am everywhere because you hear my voice even if you do not. I am trying to let you in. This is the way I know how to. This art is for the scared. This art is for the brave. This art is for the static. This art is for those who seek it. I cross barriers, translating my world into something you can enter. You can do whatever you want with it, with me. I’ll still stand. I’ll still sew your outlines into my skin. I’ll still take up the space I rightfully deserve.

Put on paper, my experience is no longer mine alone. It is yours as I now am. It is my greatest honor to be woven into your peripherals. My words are my strength. My words are my eyes. My words spread like pollen. I’ve blown my wishes into dandelions. They fly further through wings and paws and whispers and songs. My words are my greatest gift. I was always meant to be a vessel for them.

What a compliment it is to be so full of myself.


Clarifications

“The world is violent and mercurial – it will have its way with you. We are saved only by love – love for each other and the love that we pour into the art we feel compelled to share: being a parent; being a writer; being a painter; being a friend. We live in a perpetually burning building, and what we must save from it, all the time, is love.”

Tennessee Williams



I know the world is not about me. I know I am just a blip in the scale of a magnificent timeline of magnificent (and not magnificent) human existences. In the face of tragedy after tragedy, every news story that numbs us to the reality of the world, I stand in the face of it, shriveled and small. With so many issues that feel more pressing, so paramount in their importance, so pervasive in their effects, who was I to take up more space? How utterly selfish of me to make art about myself in a world where bombs go off on innocents and children worry if their light-up shoes will be their cause of death in a school lockdown. 

This isn’t the narrative.

The individual matters. I matter. You matter. We all matter.  

People don’t deserve to die because the individual matters. I cannot be frightened into submission, that my actions mean nothing, when the individual has built this world. Just as it was built, we can unbuild and rebuild, and that is what we must do. That is what we must remember.

I want to build a world that is open and free and vulnerable and sheltering. I want to build a world where taking up space does not mean that I am taking from another; it means we all have a right to be in the world as we were designed to be. 

I have always wanted to build. I just have no more interest in tearing myself down to do so.

She

She swings her hair, she sways her hips
She runs my thumb against her lip

She feasts on auras, she mirrors looks
She stamps her initials in library books

She hammers, she nails
She trips down the stairs

She sets the fire, she stands to watch
She washes her hands of the blood

She is honeysuckle, she is wheat
She spills her fragrance in the streets 

She glows, she brims
She sewed her outlines into my skin

She is inferno incarnate
life sustaining and strong

She is magic and whimsy and 
writing on the walls

She will not fade though she cannot be
She is all we see 




Poetry is in the gaps 

You can find me in the crevices.
Bagel crumbs and social anxiety.
Winding walks finding tiny rocks.
Taking notice when no one else does.
Words I string along and choose to call
art.

You can find me in the pause.
The breath between words.
Soil beneath worlds. 
Air taking meaning in hopes 
you might see me. 

You can find me in the ending.
Pages settled and papercut stings.
Beyond pretty words in a bounded box.
Waiting with my past as the future is
Beginning.
Text bubble that shows conversation

We finished Full and this wonderful collection of myself and someone very dear to me was sitting before me. We finished arranging the book online, and it, against all thoughts that it would never come to fruition, was ready to be sent for publishing. 

Miya: i just did a slow read through of the whole thing
feeling a bit emotional
this is wild
Aurelia: Hey not allowed yet. We have to have it in our hands
	THEN
	We can feel emotional
Miya: my next poem is titled “my poetry partner forbids me from emotion”


My poetry partner forbids me from emotion

My poetry partner forbids me from emotion.
A cautionary tale for premature celebration
that I will actively and blissfully ignore.
Entrenching scars flood with wisdom to the brim.
This battle I have fought before
and it is now my war to win.

In the face of a monster rearing its ugly head,
my unwavering eyes look towards, facing forward
dig in my heels against its deafening roar.
This time, there is no Oz; this gold is not gilded.
I have lifted the curtain and all is as it seems.
And in this glittering moment, full of emotion,
finally, I find peace.



Acknowledgements ** you have to write this lol

Family
Friends
New York City







DON’T THINK I AM INCLUDING



careless 
i’ve so carelessly used
love of my life
i worry for selves in different universes
for the young girl who stayed because she was comfortable
for the foolish who stayed bc she thought it was her duty to show the criminal he could be loved
for the 

A poet a romantic
The other selves who insist they found their person
they are liars b



Happy birthday

happy birthday

i gave you sunshine
balmy weather after your self-inflicted storms

i gave you

safety
promises and dreams
visions of a future
bandages for your wounds

and then you left

i gave you 6 weeks of tears
out of respect for what we were
now the well is dry
and i have the whole world to present
self-addressed
out of respect for who i am 


Main character

Want to be seen
Music and the media

A duty love can never fill
A hole your heart can’t fill

Looking for your likeness on screens
Between pages



Random Lines

Cloud shrouded buildings
Tower tall


I really am trying to get out of this
Rock climbing

Person sits
Seeming to enjoy the surroundings

Person sits
For how long

Person sits
Ankle swelling
Palm is cut wide open
Scars that have faded
Gashes picked at that

Person sits
We aren’t even sure she plans on moving

GAF Artist Statement - Answers Pending

In my art, I hope to bring the audience closer to my world, my poems serving as a transcription of my innermost thoughts and feelings. I made this series of poems to explore the associated jumble emotions orbiting around heartbreak: loss, anger, questioning, to name a few. Through a series of metaphors, I sought to visualize and illustrate the changes that are so embedded in that state of mind, a worldview that is often invisible to those around. I thought deeply about the ways that image shifts and reverts in the healing process, yet as a whole felt like a singular feeling. Although each poem asks a different question, ultimately I found their answers to be the same and underlying within the words I was writing. 


Bombs are dropping

I am terrified of misinformation
I am terrified of being the one who spreads it
I am terrified

This is so important
There is nothing I can do
How could I do nothing?

Posting seems so performative
People post on social media impact statements and pictures with bold letters and they all say that if i say nothing i am doing so wrong
Why should I feel better if I tap my thumb a couple times
And have an infographic that’ll disappear after 24 hours
Why am I making it about me
People are dying
People are dying
People are dying


There isn’t a political stance in your writing. Everyone has a political stance. What do you believe in? What do you 


If I have loved you before, and do not now, please read this.

I know what love should be now. I know what I want it to be.

I don’t like being strong 
I don’t like having it all together
I don’t like 


I love a man 
I wish I had a more creative way to say it
I wish I had a better way to say that I cherish him



I am afraid of breaking things
You make me feel like i can breathe
You make me wish i could write the most beautiful thing i have ever written


I love you 
That i never want you to end


I laid all these people in the dirt
Folded up retributions 
My origami swans i let pass on the lake
Orbs of dew lay on the petals
Towering over mounds of dirt 
In this moment i feel full and whole




some people hate the journey

some people cry thinking about it being over


I talk too much **major work

Stop talking
It’s sentence 5
Maybe sentence 6 
And you need to stop
By this time 
Im looking at eyes
Begging someone to stop me
My heart pumps like an engine
And my mouth keeps on going
On going
On going

– computational rhyming
– generate sentence 



Destruction *major work

i want to destroy all that i’ve created
visceral

heaving
the shredded remains of shining


Hecate **major work

Hecate lets the cold, metal keys jingle in her hands.  

Liminal
Faces


to my future love **major work

i'll find you under a rock
and wish i had fallen sooner

i’ll wear your shirt and your smell will linger and this time it won’t choke me in my memories

he inspires poems that i never finish
because they are never truly done


Echo **major work

in this cavern
sounds are louder
a sun so pervasive
no corner untouched
light that bleeds from
every opening
a concentrated ray
undeniable and indisputable



You’ve got a friend in me **major work

Treat myself like i am the best friend i could ever have


today blue is peeking through

the california sun reared its holy head
weeks after ignoring shouting and pleading for the rain to cease
water sprung from my once arid eyes


Sitting at a peak **major work

A seat for one
Atop a mountain peak
I sit and stay
I’ve waited long enough
For one to climb my winding trail
The view up here is nice
The wind is gentle
When the fog lifts you’ll see towns and mountains

I am inferno incarnate,
life sustaining and strong.

I am magic and whimsy and 
writing on the walls.

I kick up winds; I exude auroras.
 I project them forward.

I am unabashedly happy and
unapologetically sad.

I am optimism with action

I raze poisoned fields and
set the anew. 

I have razed fields poisoned
Infested with weeds
This soil I see nothing but life
Golden wheat bursting at its touch

Fingertips that ease pain
Golden 



i am unabashedly happy
I am sad

i see good

i have been wandering in the dark
for years
and it was only until i stopped searching
that i could finally turn on the light

i can see myself so clearly
in every facet
i am undeniable 

I see life pouring from every crack of obscurity
Its energy flows into me

I close my eyes and I smile
I get to do this the next day
The privilege of being me in all its inclusions


Check-in 3

Letter - 

(Self holding mirror) mirror: I liked that.

(Just mirror) I would have liked it more if you really believed it.

(Self) I do. I do believe it.

Mirror - you can lie to yourself ..

…but you can’t lie to me. (Crawls out of mirror)

End w self w mirror on shoulder 




Two side by side poems of what i tell myself and what i wanted to hear
Or what i think it is vs what it actually is

So I write the words I always want to hear

All along I thought this cycle was me standing up and my inner self tearing me down
When really the cycle has been me needing comfort
And never giving it to myself
I didn’t know how to ask and so I lashed out
The only thing I’ve ever wished for was to break this cycle
When I was the one perpetuating it
The cycle cannot break
But I see it more clearly
I promise to do better
Because I want to
I need to be my safest place
I need to be the person I go to


This is just a person who is scared and hurt



I am a good person
I am someone who is exciting
And fresh

I search for warmth

These days i sit outside a door
And knock 


Picked the thorns off my branches
So it won’t hurt as much when I wrap my arms around myself
Take in clean air
And notice that colors after so vibrant 



What I Told Myself 
I know you’ll fall


What I Meant *major work
Bruised

Love you blue
Red blood flowing
Gripping onto you

Love you blue
Purple splotches showing
Hidden from view

Love you blue
Until I learn 
To love me too




GAF Artist Statement - Answers Pending

In my art, I hope to bring the audience closer to my world, my poems serving as a transcription of my innermost thoughts and feelings. I made this series of poems to explore the associated jumble emotions orbiting around heartbreak: loss, anger, questioning, to name a few. Through a series of metaphors, I sought to visualize and illustrate the changes that are so embedded in that state of mind, a worldview that is often invisible to those around. I thought deeply about the ways that image shifts and reverts in the healing process, yet as a whole felt like a singular feeling. Although each poem asks a different question, ultimately I found their answers to be the same and underlying within the words I was writing. 






Thesis project work

Look at this beautiful thing
Look at this wonderful person 




I talk too much

Stop talking
It’s sentence 5
Maybe sentence 6 
And you need to stop
By this time 
Im looking at eyes
Begging someone to stop me
My heart pumps like an engine
And my mouth keeps on going
On going
On going

– computational rhyming
– generate sentence 


Title

I fell in the gap between







Full


















Written by Miya Sheker
Illustrated by Miya Sheker


















To our expanding circle of safety



Introduction


The creation of this book comes as a surprise to no one more than us, two acquaintances, three time zones apart, who shared a brief online conversation perhaps once a month before beginning this project. A modest suggestion to read poetry together every week one fateful winter night (a night notably colder for one author, not basking in the balmy California climate) turned into a regularly scheduled celebration of the written word. After a few months of simply reading, our own emotions and ideas ripened to bursting; thus we decided to end our mere consumption and take up the inky pen (or clackity keyboard). Nervous prefaces prior to reading our poems, after some weeks of writing and sharing, soon grew scarce. We unearthed newfound confidence in both our individual creative abilities and the trust that our most vulnerable musings would be met with unending empathy and warmth. We continued to challenge ourselves, creating new tasks to complete every week. Finally, we decided that what began as an off-hand comment was something that deserved to be shared—and thus this project was born. Our circle of safety where we shared our thoughts is expanding its radius ever so slightly. 
	The astute reader may notice that we seem to copy a few of each other’s lines throughout the anthology—and it’s no slip of the pen. Many of our poems started as shared lines of inspiration—a shared theme, key word or sometimes, direct inspiration from a previous poem. It provided a means for us to evoke a similar theme and explore topics together. When you notice these, just think of them as sister poems, born from the same idea, mood and week of inspiration.
Our initial conception of this book opted to host sections containing the “themes” of our poems—but we decided that such a structure would deny our poems the living breath they hold. The initial idea of compartmentalizing our poems emerged from a bristling fear of our feelings being somehow less legible unless somehow sorted neatly into boxes. Luckily, our fears found respite in our confidence in each other. We envision our anthology as a turbulent movement—each flowing (not seamlessly) into the next. That is to say, each poem stands well-defined on its own but to isolate them would be to deny them their becoming life. They share their deepest intimacies with their neighbors just as we the authors have done in our many meetings. We humbly thank you for doing so, as the addition of your own experiences and perspectives adds color to our art in ways we could have never imagined. 


Through These Words
By Miya

My fingertips caress this soft page,
Bent and worn with every clutch
Upon the unexpected. Placement
Of punctuation, words thoughtfully chosen, 
Connotations concealed lurking in deposits beneath 
Inky rivers scrawled across untouched land.
Bristles on this brush
Against accumulated dust
Uncover slowly, painstakingly,
An artifact so perfectly preserved.
On which, a visionary penned the
Indescribable 
To paper. In a flash,
In vivid colors, In tangible moments,
Unfolds scenes frozen in time, 
A kaleidoscopic lens of your magnificent world—
Whispers of hidden voices,
Sunlight on your face atop the mountain,
Screams that echo in the valleys of your emotion.
On unremarkable days, I bask in your light
Emanated by scribbled ink. I read these
Words
And feel your soul:
A mirror in which I see myself—
Not too much, just enough
To stop feeling alone,
But still feel different.

A shiver electric through my skin.
A body shifts in the ground: the release of
A soul exclaiming in sweet relief.
Rejoice! Someone,
Finally,
Has heard them.






An Unlikely Fascination with Birds
By Miya

An ox nestles in rolling meadows.
Tall grass waving amiably in the wind
To this peculiar, burly fellow, still as stone,
Eyes to the sky as winged friends pass him.

Sitting, People Watching
By Miya

9 pm, sitting idly by a bustling road.
Casting puzzled glances, people briskly
Pass me, planted next to unkempt roses, alone.
Intent on warm destinations, and there sits me,
A willing witness to a world willed slow.




Latch
By Miya

Bouts of laughter I often hear,
Animated eyes and involuntary squeals.
Engrossing recounts of exciting lives lived.
Orchestral mirth, unrehearsed, swells in sound,
Despite not one conductor around.
Linked arm in arm down this narrow path,
Four feet in perfect stride, they march 
As if no time has passed.

Those faces I have grown so fond of, but
‘Tis their backs that feel like home.
I watch them walk with their bubbling talk.
Fragments of tales that float on by
Trickle to my eager ears as I trail behind. 
Like smoke that spirals into view
From the hearth that is burning inside.
A nearly thawing sight.

Through the gate they go, the door swings closed
Before opening once more its wrought mouth wide.
My outstretched hand met with the hinges’ cry.
The strike of the clasp - a clang of metal resounding.
Again and again, the gate rebounding.
Repeated reminders with each dissonant ring, caution!
An all-at-once, definitive shut, forewarning the final lock.
Alone, still, on the other side, I smile as I resign.


Classical Master
By Miya

Globs of mismatched paint.
Brushstrokes in drunken stupor.
Resonating view.



Half Past Ten
By Miya

Every morning at half past ten,
with shoulders warm and red,
a woman waits and longs for shade
under rippling rays and gasoline haze.

She clutches a tattered cloth purse
as rubber sandals climb each step.
Fingers fumble at the clasp and a curse 
is muttered under breath.

Coins clang down the machine.
She ambles by a row of empty seats.
At last, exhaling as she settles into 
the second seat that’s free.

Handkerchief to her lips, breathing in
Scents of detergent and her own sweat mingling,
lingering a moment before shaky hands dab 
at rolling droplets down tan, leather skin.

Wheels wheeze, turning slow
Entering the flow of streets that teem.
Horns honk, lurching stops taken like 
the ocean tide, oblivious to the world outside.

The symphony of a busy city,
cacophony of conversations colliding—
nothing but background music to thoughts
I am not privy to. For

Every morning quarter past ten,
I wait patiently to watch the scene unfold, 
Puzzled by the fondness and warmth I hold 
for the woman without a name.

Uncharted Expedition
By Miya

Who dares venture there?
Cascades of vivid yellow trees
Burgeoning at the base of a mountain, 
Pushing brazenly to the forefront
Alongside verdant evergreens, eagerly
Multiplying! Spreading! Stretching
To the sky in aimless desperation 
As they grow sparse in elevation.
Futile efforts to conceal towering rock and dust,
The gray mass on which they stand, and
A peak yet untouched.


Steadying Breath
By Miya

I count to ten,  
and I exhale 
until my brain is hyper-aware of 
the emptiness of my lungs 
and the heaviness of my heart, 
brimming with the hope 
that someday soon you will come 
to fill the space.


Hope and Revelations
By Miya

And he came forward. 
So close I could see 
the hope gleaming in his eyes.  
Deep and dark, his eyes revealed  
every kiss he’s ever received,  
every hand outstretched and left empty,  
and the bird in his ribcage  
that slept through winter  
and is now ready for spring.


May Prayers
By Miya

May music lull softly in your ear—
The notes drifting aimlessly,
Strolling along the corridors of your mind
In joyous golden harmony.

May you dance on the sandy beaches
Of happiness, barefoot and free,
The moon reflecting your jubilance
Over the calm expanses of the sea.

May your heart be stitched clumsily onto your sleeve
In a perfectly misshapen display
For unscrupulous souls to cling onto
To patch their own broken ways.



Pop
By Miya

Memories of me float past your eyes.
Reflections in globular bubbles
gleam in high beam lights,
sparkling on summer days.
Melted popsicle sticks in a pool of cherry red,
Bike tires screeching on sidewalks,
Rays in waves around lines of sight,
Crooked tooth smiles and 
Blue ribbon dresses.
Cracking open cans of soda 

                                pop.
Look at me now.
Who do you see?


Pigeon in New York City
By Miya

Staring expectantly at my own hazy outline,
A reflection separate from the bustle behind.
For days here I stand firmly until I find

A crumbling roof and cracking glass overhead.
Tucked wings remain still, my unused assets
Bound by gravity, grounded until I forget

My Brothers, Sisters, Comrades and Foes-
The flap of their wings, caws ring unenclosed.
Feathers falling from the sky landing below

Me, daring to take a step.




Fall
By Miya

A somber summer’s day
crashing like waves against the bluff.
Coming, each step towards me
And further from the you I hold dear.
Tangled grass grips, fastened 
to my place, hopeless. 
You gaze towards me. But only
yearning what’s beyond, never
meeting the plea in my eyes.

You leap and I fall
Behind in your wake.



High Castle
By Miya

time lagging,
change imperceptible.
waving white flags
to high castle impenetrable
as I retreat to my lowly fortress
to live behind locked doors and
a crack I carved in secrecy.
outside phantoms prowl,
protection from this person,
ghosts haunting as I hide.
they see through my eyes.
they speak with my mouth.
change imperceptible,
time lagging.



World Views
By Miya

Rope swing on a hill.
No land or sea left unseen.
Go tumbling down.




Running
By Miya

Running me ragged.
No way to get past it.
Breathless and lost
As I’m fighting this fog
Looming overhead,
Threats with every step.
Each stumble I hear
The voices of those I hold dear.
Tremble in my place
Alone in this haze
You must be asking who
Dares hold me in pursuit?
Prodding on tightrope,
‘Tis none other than hope
Running me ragged.
No way to get past it.




Summer Daze
By Miya

Summer in all its passions
and gilded in all its glory
still seems to slip away.

Sunlight in abundance
set to stall my slumber
til night consumes the day.

Summer in all its promises
pacts to lovers and to friends
(All these I have yet to keep).

Summer the source
for all this emptiness.
No one to blame but me.


Wine Stains
By Miya

I wrote about wine
Before I even took a sip.
Intoxicated in his eyes,
In proximity to his fire.
A flower before its bloom
Revels in new warmth on its skin.
Sing me to sleep, the baby cried,
With your voice like red wine.
Chasing an idealistic phantom buzz
Coursing through my mind.

I took a sip.
Those bitter tastes linger 
Forever entwined to this day
Though the glass has since 
Shattered, spilled and stained
Time-worn sleeves that should be
Housing this heart as it beats.
My sober heart retreats into
This ribcage of tendrils,
Singed from naive musings: 
What did I have to lose?


World Outside the Window
By Miya

A hummingbird gleams,
In hues of green and blue.
Revolutions that surround me,
Flitting in and out of view.

Retreat far beyond this pane,
Return in the blink of a season. 
Repeated change, internalized pain:
The world in which we live in.




Artistic Vision
By Miya

I close my eyes— 
my mind places me 
barefoot 
on rocky pacific shores. 
Wearing nothing but a loose dress, 
thin, colorless, and 
painfully unequipped  
to shield me from the cold. 
My skin sticks from the salty air; 
my untied hair battered from violent gusts; 
my eyes squinting 
to find where the sky meets the sea, 
like searching for a line in a  
watercolor canvas of  
melancholy blues,  
domineering grays, and  
apathetic white. 
Thankfully, I am alone here, 
for when the ocean pushes against the land,
no one but 
me 
will be swept in its undertow.



Instinct
By Miya

Wishful thinking to perpetuate this stillness. 
A plaster statue buffeted by sudden winds.
Each singular moment bleeds into the next:
Supple waves spanning further than I can see
Pulses surging over once smooth waters,
Ripples expanding their radius to threaten me
As I remain crouching in this riverbank,
Concealed by tall grass. Eyes darting for 
Any sign of movement, pondering if today will be
Fight or Flight.




Weighted Blankets
By Miya

Tucked under heavy sheets
in a room where the darkness
casts its own shadowed light.
Sinking deeper under covers,
Undercover facades, facets of
life throughout time,
dance in my mind, projected onto
walls that will likely outlast me.

To familiar eyes,
I cry: Were you happy? 
Existing as a hollow shell 
of spun sugar dreams and
compliments of neighbors,
many who grew to abhor you.
Layers of blankets protect a sickly soul.
For those gossamer threads
have long since melted, revealing
a shriveled core exposed, yet
more whole,
than during ever passing seasons.


Listening
By Miya

I stay awake 
To listen to the gentle breath of my grandmother, 
To distant engines on long journeys, 
To the bird’s morning song,
No call unanswered.

I stay awake 
To watch the sky turn a light gray, 
My ceiling dimly lit by daybreak.
The silhouettes of my room slowly sharpen  
Until I see faint shapes of furniture.

I stay awake  
For my restless heart to crawl into the crevasses of my mind 
To sink into corners that my light
Of rationality and hope has yet to illuminate.
There, it festers as the blackness encompasses me.

I stay awake 
As I let it take over me 
Like an oil spill over the ocean of my eyes,
Await for the sun to shine once again,
Iridescent light refracted upon dark irises wide.



Molting
By Miya

Spring dew on small leaves—
Those that braved winter chills 
And survived to see the sun.
Bare, twisted branches
No longer knock at frigid panes.
Shadows unravel and reveal 
Life abound, teeming
With all I had yet to see.

A lizard, anxious to settle in light,
Glimmers in the morning sun
Freshly set free 
of gray, flaking skin.
For somewhere there,
It’s lurking 
Underneath the surface:
New, yet still familiar:
A soul reawakening, 
Pushing for first breath
After what feels like a lifetime 
of embryonic sleep.


Human
By Miya

Grounded, deliberate movements
To feel these bones click into place,
Muscles breeding tension with
Every bend and extension,
Pangs that greet me at every limit
Like the embrace of a companion
Before the journey returning home.
Carry-ons of comfort in this
Corporeal pound of flesh,
The privilege to call my own.




The Last Act
By Miya

The curtains slowly raise.
Figure frozen midway 
through a slow pirouette: 
soft bends along the forearms, 
fingers stretched to their ends.  
Soft light illuminates hair 
as it falls in gentle waves
matted in sweat, delicate twists
along the neck and face.

Those first gradual movements 
now furiously unfurl and flow,
fighting limitations of this closed 
form.
Within a fleshy cage, a
void
pulses, fervent for the freedom of release 
knowing all the while
liberation equates destruction.

At last! the final bow:
hands gripping and head down.
airs of defiance in desperate breath.
Every fiber of being, every muscle, flexed.
Tensed, lest we succumb to sweet collapse:
a figure left panting as the audience claps.
Exhausted to the bones, not a move left to give,
the internal flurry, insurgent under skin,
to settle until the curtains raise yet again.

Row by row, patrons stand up to leave.
Slipping from their seats,
forgotten programmes read:
Empty space—beyond logic—
shapes both curves and ridges,
the subjects of adoration and applause.
fluid physical motion, steeped in years 
of practiced technique, alongside 
geographic range of emotion, spanning everything
and nothing
in perfect synchronicity.



Full



By Miya

I wish you greetings as you emerge,
Step after steep bus step,
Settling in your seat and join in 
A chorus, raucous, unapologetic.

I wish you hands on your knees, 
Gasping for breath, feet that won’t
Move another step, as others cross 
The finish line and into open arms.

I wish you the exact moment
You first heard your favorite song, 
That critical, unbounded second
Your soul first learned to sing.

I wish you object throwing, 
Profanity flowing, fists curled tight
And knuckles white over blood
Drawn against your own palms.

I wish you days stuck in the rain, 
Sopping wet, socks soaked, so
Ankle deep in rushing water
You forget what it means to be dry.

I wish you eerie mornings, hints of sun 
Peeking through dusty blinds 
That haven’t been opened in ages
Until, perhaps, today. 

These I wish and so much more:
The full extent of every emotion
On the grand scale of your
Short-lived, brilliant human existence.



community garden

the plant in the windowsill has not seen 
water in how many days
it listens as the faucet drips and the boards creak
the basin fills and the laundry still 
intertwines with water from the wash

bulbs blink at crumbs from bagels from 
the deli down the street
they fell into the crevices of 
the table that took days to clean
the tile crumbles underneath jars of 
sugar and salt 

i address my comrades on a
chair i built with screws and sweat and
cries for a carpenter to come
my shadows from the lamp dance on the walls
by a desk that sways; it is
the ocean and i, the moon



Wash and Dry

Turned on the washing machine – 
The rumbles sound like rain.
It hides the i miss yous,
Highlights what I’m holding onto:
You
	Your electricity surges
	Your memory precipitates
	Your love lingers

I duck under thunder.
I rejoice in my respite.
The suds turn,
Irreverently,
Like you did. This time
The bloodstains from your knife 
Evaporate and the dryer cycle begins.



Grandma?

I thought

I lost my grandmother in Larkin Park
My mind wandered up the branches
And my eyes chose to follow. Her
Laugh and laugh and laugh
I (surely) could hear her pass
I did not! Lose sight of her
Skin and bones hobble slow


Fuji

Fuck!
This apple sucks
I don’t know how
To pick fruit
I just chose it
I grinned as
I dropped them in the cart
I bought the bag
	I brought them home
I told a stranger it was my 
Apple slices
And peanut butter
Era
But fuck
These apples suck

Stop.
Eating.
Lift up your shirt in the mirror.
Why do you let wisps of men
Speak in your mind?

-do not be a fraction of who you were meant to be



i am the only thing that won’t fade away
despite my best attempts 

(Right page)
He could piss in the flowerbed
and i would still tend to the soil



that place was a passage
men against the walls
grabbing at our sleeves
they want to take what
makes us powerful
they cannot take
what is not theirs
what never could be theirs

-we are all just passing through | we will go on




(Right page)
She wakes
At dawn
To the sound
Of a 
Child
That is not hers
She soothes him
Charcoal on his fair skin
She pretends she can see her blood in him
She coos at a child with stubby hands at her collar
As oil from the pan leaps to onto a milky egg
When the moon turns
She serves coffee and sugar
Bread and butter in a basket
The baby wails for his mother’s skin
Who smiles coolly 
As she basks in steam from her cup 
How could anyone ever leave their child?

She wakes before dawn to the sound of a child
That is not hers. The baby cries. The baby cries. The baby
Cries. She rushes to him. His skin glows in the night.
She soothes him in the way she knows how while her body
Weeps for the child that haunts her dreams each night. 
Tenderly she picks up the child before her, She is afraid 
of rubbing charcoal on his fair skin. She can’t help but pretend
To see her blood in him as he looks up at her innocently.

She carries the child upstairs and coos at him. His stubby hands 
at her collar. The baby sighs. The baby sigh. The baby
Sighs. He is whisked across the kitchen.
Oil from the pan leaps onto a milky egg
Timers on toasters tick. She finds herself explaining her every move
To a child who has not yet had language grace his tongue
She covers his ear as the kettle screeches
This is not his world

She settles the child into his chair at the table as 
the white moon turns. The baby tries. The baby tries. The baby
Tries to find his mother. His mother descends from her bedroom
To the table, pouring milk and sugar into her coffee
As her baby wails for her skin
She smiles coolly as she basks in steam from her cup
How could anyone ever leave their child? She says
Just loud enough for the kitchen to hear


The words
‘Love of my life’
Have so carelessly come out of my mouth
That i cannot help but feel
Sorry
And
Scared
The longer your skin is on mine


you are beautiful except for your color
so pretty but so dark
you spent all day in the sun and now you suffer the consequences


I do not accept gifts
I do not want reminders you were here
After you have gone


If you spend so long focusing on the woman you want to be
You lose out on seeing the woman you are now


My mother cooked potatoes
She would place them in the oven
And i would watch their skin blister
With my face behind the glass
My mother would remove the tray
Hurriedly i would tear into them
Steam rushing out of them
I would follow its path until it 
Disappeared
Above me
I would wonder where it was going
Until i remembered its flesh was before me
And i ate

-consume

i lay down and feel.
spiders. 
all over me.
when it is just 
my hair 
that has fallen 
from my head
and my mind 
playing tricks on 
Me.

if i could make the temple move
and the rock by which i worship,
to hand-carve our synergies in solid stone
for only the earth itself to corrode
in humble endings of time, 

i would stare at your eager fingers,
crawling like spider legs.
heavy breathing, web weaving.
then i would opt to walk away.
i wouldn’t give the satisfaction
even if i could.



the mistakes i made at 18
The Paper assailants that follow me
Flimsy outlines of ghosts haunting
they come every night
They drag me to the floor
My hands are red 
But i never held the weapon
It’s not my fault i tried to stop
The bleeding 
It’s not my fault i tried to stop
The Writing 
It’s not my fault i live life
blinded


this pain is a reminder of your capacity to love

you can feel it and not hate yourself for doing so

you can feel it and know it’ll pass


i am not fighting this invisible obstacle anymore


i
 have this gnawing fear of the end
 not that you’ll leave 
 i would understand if you did
it’s that i am just like him
and fate has given me you
a precious gift in my hands
grains of sand ticking by
until you slip through my fingertips
and i feign innocence

i have always sought a mirror
a portal, a place to see clearer
now these words ring like a bell
come sit for a spell.
Watch me mold my aura, 
willing the
world spins slower
it is a wonder
i survived myself
contradictions and chameleon addictions
this is the world from this vantage
point to the perspective i need
maybe then the world will hear me

admiration hand in hand with
hesitation
so much i wish to see
so much i hope to emulate
So much i stand still
So much i want to be
But i guess i never will

You think I’d be angry but I am not. 
I made you, I know you, your every latching thought
Was first my art, my pen point to the paper
this place is familiar. I created it myself
And all my pain has been archived, tidy books on a shelf
Your insults are old friends
Rushed analysis my acquaintances 
This cycle is old and high time it ends

You think I would hate you but how could I ever?
For the heathens that haunt you are
The reasons you’re bitter 
But they bit me first 
Don’t you ever forget it, 
you were made in the wake of them
And I laid awake with them
I built myself back like painting photos by memory
Going through the motions of who i thought i should be
I felt guilty for my versions, the facades I had made
I thought it would be safer, but it’s just isolating

You think I’d erase you but you are a part of me.
And I am sorry you’re hurting, you’re confused and you’re scared
Take a breath, take my hand, I’ve been there, I know
My wounds once cut deep but look now they brim
With patience, with wisdom, appreciation
Being an extension of my likeness is far from a curse
I am inferno incarnate, life sustaining and strong
I am magic and whimsy and writing on the walls
I am honeysuckle and wheat and 
Endlessly complete
And it’s my fault I never wrote this
But that stops today
To next time this monster rears its ugly face
I will look towards, facing forward
dig in my heels against its deafening roar
there is no Oz, there never was. 
this gold is not gilded, i am lifting the curtain; 
all is as it seems
and in this glittering moment, full of emotion
finally, i find peace




